# Lesson 1.7 Teaching Notes

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Asynchronous Data, Conditional Rendering, Advanced and Impossible State | 8 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline

- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to connect to Airtable API and fetch data from Airtable.

## :wave: Check-In

### Check-In Open-Ended Questions

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing).
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week?

### Check-In Progress Poll

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance.

### :mag: Content Overview

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials:

- Async data
- Conditional rendering
- Advanced state
- Impossible state

#### Observations

- Promise...resolve is more difficult to wrap your head around than fetch
  - BUT the underlying technology of fetch is Promise!
  - [JS Promises: an intro](https://web.dev/promises/)
  - [States and Fates](https://github.com/domenic/promises-unwrapping/blob/master/docs/states-and-fates.md)

### Async data

- Allows for time-expensive processes (fetching data) to be non-blocking

#### Conditional rendering

- Evaluate the condition of a particular evaluation then use it to decide whether to render something
  - inline with ternary
  - separate function that returns jsx (if/then, switch/case/default, etc)
  - React accepts `null` and will do nothing
- Nice for user interface to show a "loading" status
- Hide resources for certain types of users
  - Links/ resources available for only logged in users
  - Login form for those who are not logged in (makes no sense to show a login form when someone is already logged in)

#### Advanced state

- useReducer- good for complex state structures (think redux)

#### Impossible state

- multiple useStates can end up causing problems when useEffect is introduced, especially when having to handle errors. Should a promise reject, depending on how the useState's have been implemented, there could be a conflict (eg- a fetch fails but an error message is never able to be shown because a "loading" indicator state does not get changed on a success.)
- more info about how to use useReducer

### Potential concept demo ideas

- practical useReducer scenario
- conditional rendering- have a "complete task" button strike through task then exposes a "hide all completed tasks" button
- if field empty and isLoading, disable submit

### Todo list instructions call-outs

- the new useEffect with the Promise is muddy AF
  - The promise should be given, instructions should be re-worded, or a brief explanation of a Promise and its composition should be provided.
- programmer set up for frustration by allowing then to experience dueling useEffects before warning them

### End of lesson app capabilities/features

- Todo list will load from local storage after 2 seconds, until it does, a loading message will show on the screen
- adding todos will not work until time has elapsed

### :thinking: Questions

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

- Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
- Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
- Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who assembled the teaching notes for this lesson, and Raquel Román-Rodriguez, who assembled the rubrics.
