# Lesson 1.8 Teaching Notes

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Data Fetching and Refetching, Memorized Handlers | 1.8 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline

- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to connect to Airtable API and fetch data from Airtable.

## Sample Mentor Session

### :wave: Check-In

#### Check-In Open-Ended Questions

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing).
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week?

#### Check-In Progress Poll

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance.

### :mag: Content Overview

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials:

- Data fetching
- Data re-fetching
- memoized handlers

#### Observations

- Course material makes use of useReducer (look at them dispatches) while the lesson instructions does not.
- the whole codebase (references to item.title should NOT be changed to handle the API) should not change for the API. nly the entrypoint of the data which should map it to the "shape" used already. "Serialized"

#### Data fetching

- setup varies between APIs. Some need authentication -developer key, secret, token, session token, etc. Some are open. Find API docs.
- handling errors
  - try/catch
  - handling response not okay
  - handling HTTP response code errors

#### Data re-fetching

- adding query parameters to fetch url

#### Memoized handlers

- saves a the results of a function giving an argument(s). Acts as a "wrapper" around the invocation that looks at the argument. If the argument has been used previously, the memo will pass back the same value rather than invoking the function again.
- React has `useCallback` and `useMemo`
  - `useCallback` returns function when dependencies change (good for caching results of API calls with params)
  - `useMemo` returns the value of a computationally expensive function and does so when its dependencies change.

#### Potential concept demo ideas

- JS memo alongside React useMemo
- salient useMemo, useCallback examples
- error handling (auth, dead connection, resource 404)

#### Todo list instructions call-outs

- Suggest updating the API data as it is fetched rather than changing component code.
- Suggest stretch goals of saving new todos to Airtable.

#### End of lesson app capabilities/features

- Todo list loads information from the Airtable API
- New todos show in app but do not get saved up to Airtable

### :thinking: Questions

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

- Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
- Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
- Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who created the teaching notes for this lesson, and Raquel Román-Rodriguez, who created the rubric.
