# Lesson 1.9 Teaching Notes

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Third-Party Libraries, Async/Await, Forms | 11 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline

- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to install and setup React router, add a new route component.

## :wave: Check-In

### Check-In Open-Ended Questions

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing).
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week?

### Check-In Progress Poll

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance.

### :mag: Content Overview

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials:

- 3rd-party libraries
- Async/await
- Forms

### Observations

- book talks about older browsers w/o mentioning HOW old
  - IE 11 end of life 2022
  - Chrome support from 2015 (v42)
  - Edge support from 2016 (v14)
  - Safari support from 2017 (v10.1)
  - FF support from 2015 (v39)
  - Opera support from 2015 (v29)

#### 3rd party libraries

- bring in code that can help with specialized or complex tasks
  - D3js, ChartJS, React Spring, Framer Motion, Dinero.JS, Math.js...
  - Research before using other's code. Consider:
    - Licensing (MIT, GPL, proprietary)
    - Popularity, community support
      - GH stars, weekly downloads on NPM
      - Forums, Reddit, Discord, Slack, Stack Overflow questions
    - Standing/known problems: GH issues
- React-specific libraries such as Router or React-Redux have their own components that wrap around portions of the application to give them context- basically access to their features.
- Common to have "services" set up outside of components to have libraries do specific tasks so that the logic stays separate from the component. (separation of concerns)

#### Async-await

- I need to do more research into this section.

#### Potential concept demo ideas

#### Todo list instructions call-outs

- can alias "BrowserRouter" as "Router"
- **ALERT: Inaccurate instructions** React-Router `Route` does not accept child elements other than another `Route`. Existing jsx needs to be worked into an `element` property for the `Route` I did this with a function that returns the original jsx. It would be better to define a new component but I am withholding from doing that until I see how much the code base is used in the final classes.  
- Lessons are a WIP that leave you hanging. Would be interesting to scaffold named todo lists.

### End of lesson app capabilities/features

- All previous functionality still exists
- Can navigate to `http://localhost:3000/new` and see a test heading

### :thinking: Questions

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

- Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
- Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
- Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues

TBD
