# Lesson 2.1 Teaching Notes 

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| React Router, Class Components | 2.1 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline 
- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview 

**Note**: This lesson does not work with the to-do list project. 

**Learning Objective:** Students will be ablet to refactor class components to function components using the useState hook.

## Sample Mentor Session 

### :wave: Check-In

#### Check-In Open-Ended Questions 

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing). 
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week? 

#### Check-In Progress Poll 

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance. 

### :mag: Content Overview 

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials: 
 
- Class components
- Class component state
 
#### Class components

- Used as state component before React Hooks introduced on React 16.8 (Feb 2019)
  - Used as stateful parent component to presentation components which were function-based but missing any state management like useState, useRef, ect.
- Fell out of favor with many when hooks introduced but still common. Found in older code bases and with developers that prefer a OOP approach to programming. (Angular and Express OOP)
- call out use of `this` and `.bind` with class-based properties/methods (arrow functions don't need these :-) )
- uses lifecycle including methods
  - componentDidMount - run stuff when component created(network requests, etc)
  - componentDidUpdate - run stuff when component reloads
  - componentWillUnmount - run cleanup code when component is un-mounted (timers, event listeners, cancel network requests, close opened connections)

#### Topic 2

- setState() - establishes values for the component
- forceUpdate() - React may not see an update a 3rd party library performed on data or display info

#### Potential concept demo ideas

- show old flatiron code- should use ph5 project, RecipeBook

#### Todo list instructions call-outs

- [Reference](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html)

#### End of lesson app capabilities/features

App should function the same as when it started.

### :thinking: Questions 

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

  - Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
  - Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
  - Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form 

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues 

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who created the teaching notes for this lesson, and Raquel Román-Rodriguez, who created the rubric for this lesson. 
