# Lesson 3.1 Teaching Notes 

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| CSS, Styled Components, SVG | 3.1 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline 
- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview 

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to add styling to the to-do list project using CSS modules. 

## Sample Mentor Session 

### :wave: Check-In

#### Check-In Open-Ended Questions 

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing). 
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week? 

#### Check-In Progress Poll 

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance. 

### :mag: Content Overview 

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials: 
 
- Styling in React
- CSS in React
- CSS modules in React
 
#### Lecture talking points

- organization and consistency is key
  - pay close attention to scope (generic styles in modules affect all components)
  - keep component-specific styles close to components
  - re-usable styles should be aggregated
  - scss common and worth exploring
- utility classes good for going "fast" if you know them well
- styled components very powerful but more difficult to organize at scale (my preferred)

#### Styling in React

#### CSS in React

- inline styles: valid js object w/camelCase css property and quote-encapsulated values
  - interpolate into element using styles={someStyleObj}
  - className set to string. Imported into component's file or globally

#### CSS modules in React

- className property on imported styles module

#### Potential concept demo ideas

- demonstrate specificity that results from different approaches

### :thinking: Questions 

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

  - Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
  - Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
  - Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form 

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues 

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who created the teaching notes for this lesson. 
