# Lesson 4.1 Teaching Notes

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Performance, TypeScript, Testing, Project Structure | 15 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline

- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to install prop types library and assign component prop types

## :wave: Check-In

### Check-In Open-Ended Questions

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing).
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week?

### Check-In Progress Poll

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance.

### :mag: Content Overview

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials:

- Performance in React
- TypeScript in React
- Testing in React
- React project structure

#### Observations

- TODO: observe re-renders while typing into a controlled form
  - RtR wk15 p5

### Performance in react

- be mindful of what useEffect updates on with 2nd arg
  - empty array: once only (technically x2) <React.useStrict>
  - no array: run every time component updates
  - tie into useRef is you want to avoid running on 1st render
- useMemo (need to do research!)
- useCallback (need to do research!)

### Typescript in React

- installed by default in VS Code.
- Other text editors may need plugins.
- For developers
  - reveals errors while developing
  - allows them to understand expected inputs/outputs, object schemas
  - adds transpile step because browser only understands JS
    - strips typing info out
    - transpile vs compile
- @types/node @types/react @types/react-dom @types/jest
- [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped)
- rename .js -> ts, .jsx -> tsx

### Testing in React (need to learn!!)

- Unit, Integration, E2E
- Jest

#### Project Structure

- Separation of concerns
- Group like w/ like &or by feature
- Centralize reusable portions of code
- Honor existing codebase

#### Potential concept demo ideas

- demo useState w/useRef to prevent 1st run out of the gate
  - *AddTodoForm button className logs to console*
- difference in/out of strict mode
- example unit tests

### :thinking: Questions

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

- Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
- Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
- Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

## :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who created the teaching notes for this lesson.
