# Lesson 5.1 Teaching Notes

| **Topic** | **Week** | **Class Website** |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Sorting, Searching, Pagination | 5.1 | [Link](https://learn.codethedream.org/) |

## Outline

- Overview
- Sample Mentor Session
- Common Issues

## Overview

**Learning Objective:** Students will be able to sort their application using Airtable and JavaScript.

## Sample Mentor Session

### :wave: Check-In

#### Check-In Open-Ended Questions

- Start with an icebreaker from this [icebreaker list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbwKn8B5GfRueq7Zbw0zx_k15aqyIqIs23i_WHI-pPI/edit?usp=sharing).
- What is something that you are excited to learn more about this week?

#### Check-In Progress Poll

- What is your progress on **this week's** materials?

  - [ ] Done
  - [ ] Almost Done
  - [ ] Halfway
  - [ ] Just started
  - [ ] Haven't started

While students are responding to the check-in questions, take attendance.

### :mag: Content Overview

Let's review some key terms and concepts from this week's lesson materials:

- Sorting
- Searching
- Pagination

#### Observations

- not really React-specific- more along common tasks done in web apps
- dislike using API sort rather than local- excessive network requests to enable app functionality.

#### Sorting

- on load - intercept data from endpoint and sort before useStore.
- on load - allow API to do it based on their docs. This app uses Airtable which takes url query params
- render time - chain sort onto map
- user-initiated - callback handler + setState
  - Todo app toggles between 2 variations (asc, desc) - NOTE: I disagree with approach of querying API to have it sort data for us unless it is a collaborative todo list expecting frequent upgrades from different users.
  - If multiple ways to sort are needed, take advantage of a lookup object.
- consider query options if using React Router

#### Searching

- consider query options if using React Router

#### Pagination

- Don't want to return hundreds/k's/mil's (Picture Google result showing ALL hits!)
- Groupings sensible for app- 10,20,100
- Dependent on API implementation for specifics
  - Some query-based
  - Others automatically paginate

#### Potential concept demo ideas

- long list sort (local)
- long list search
- complex filter
- leveraging Router

#### Todo list instructions call-outs

- References TodoContainer.js which does not exist prior to this lesson.

#### :thinking: Questions

Use this time to answer students questions from the lesson materials and assignments. Remember to incorporate teaching strategies:

- Think aloud: Narrate your thinking to show students how developers approach problems. For example, “When I saw this problem, I decided to approach it by…”
- Use positive narration. For example, “I appreciate that Raheem has his camera on today” or “That was an excellent question."
- Warm call on students or practice popcorn calling (students can ask another student for help) if participation is low.

### :nerd_face: Mentor Session Report Form

Please remember to fill out the [Mentor Session Report Form](https://airtable.com/shrp0jjRtoMyTXRzh) at the end of the session.

## Common Issues

TBD

:crown: Thanks to Roy Mosby, who created the teaching notes for this lesson.
